.\" Copyright (c) 2021-2022  Joachim Wiberg <troglobit@gmail.com>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"       documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"     * Neither the name of the copyright holders nor the names of its
.\"       contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
.\"       this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
.\" ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Jan 4 2022
.Dt MDNSD.SERVICE 5 SMM
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mdnsd.service
.Nd mdnsd service configuration file
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm /etc/mdns.d/*.service
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm mdnsd
needs at least one
.Pa .service
file to actively announce itself.  The systems that
.Nm mdnsd
targets usually have an SSH or HTTP/HTTPS service, which can be located
by end-users with mDNS-SD.   E.g.,
.Nm mdnsd
may be embedded in your printer, an access point, an industrial switch,
or other headless network connected device.
.Pp
Services are defined one per
.Pa .service
file and only two fields are mandatory:
.Bl -tag -width TERM
.It Cm type Ar TYPE
The
.Ar TYPE
can be any service type from
.Pa /etc/services ,
prefixed with an underscore.  E.g., 'ipp' is port 631/tcp, which gives
the type
.Cm _ipp._tcp
.It Cm port Ar PORT
The port is the UDP or TCP port to announce.  This can also be found in
the file
.Pa /etc/services .
.El
.Pp
There are also a few optional fields supported, see below for examples:
.Bl -tag -width TERM
.It Cm name Ar STRING
Free form string to describe service.  Usually what is presented to end
users by discovery agents.
.It Cm txt Ar STRING
Text records are free-form strings that are included in service
announcements.  Useful for announcing meta data about your service.
.It Cm target Ar URL
URL to announce as canonical for this service.
.It Cm cname Ar URL
A
.Cm cname
is an alias that can be announced for unique service reqords.  E.g., if
only one HTTP service is available on the LAN it can be reached through
the full name, or using the
.Cm cname
alias.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
This section has some examples of mDNS service definitions.
.Ss SSH
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent
# mDNS-SD advertisement of SSH service
type _ssh._tcp
port 22
.Ed
.Ss FTP
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent
# mDNS-SD advertisement of FTP service
name Troglobit FTP Server
type _ftp._tcp
port 21
txt server=uftpd
txt version=2.6
target ftp.luthien.local
.Ed
.Ss HTTP
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent
# mDNS-SD advertisement of HTTP service
type _http._tcp
port 80
txt server=merecat
txt version=2.31
cname home.local
.Ed
.Ss Printer
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent
# mDNS-SD advertisement of foo._printer._tcp.local.
type _printer._tcp
port 515
.Ed
.Ss IPP
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent
# mDNS-SD advertisement of foo._ipp._tcp.local.
type _ipp._tcp
port 631
.Ed
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /etc/services -compact
.It Pa /etc/services
List of standard service definitions in UNIX
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mquery 1 ,
.Xr mdnsd 8
.Sh AUTHORS
This mDNS-SD implementation was initially developed by
.An Jeremie Miller Aq jer@jabber.org
in 2003.  Much later
.An Joachim Wiberg Aq troglobit@gmail.com
adopted it for further development and maintenance
.Nm
at
.Lk https://github.com/troglobit/mdnsd GitHub
