.\" Copyright (c) 2021-2022  Joachim Wiberg <troglobit@gmail.com>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"       documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"     * Neither the name of the copyright holders nor the names of its
.\"       contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
.\"       this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\" DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
.\" ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Jan 4 2022
.Dt MQUERY 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mquery
.Nd small query tool for multicast DNS
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm mquery
.Op Fl hsv
.Op Fl i Ar IFACE
.Op Fl t Ar TYPE
.Op Fl w Ar SEC
.Op Ar NAME
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a companion tool to
.Xr mdnsd 8 ,
but can also be used stand-alone with other mDNS servers.  It formats
and sends mDNS service queries, similar to how
.Xr mdns-scan 1
works, but with a fraction of the usability.
.Pp
.Nm
runs on the system default interface, derived from the routing table.
To run on another interface, use the
.Fl i Ar IFACE
command line option.  It runs continuously monitoring for responses to
the initial query, by default
.Cm _services._dns-sd._udp.local.
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
This program follows the usual UNIX command line syntax. The options are
as follows:
.Bl -tag
.It Fl h
Print a bare bones help message and exits.
.It Fl i Ar IFACE
Interface to run query on, by default the system default interface is
used, derived from the routing table.
.It Fl s
By default
.Nm
behaves a lot like
.Xr mdns-scan 1 ,
which after receiving an initial reply to a scan, sends a specific PTR
query to the respondent.  This option skips that specific scan and runs
.Nm
in a simple mode.
.It Fl t Ar TYPE
Query type, default 12 (PTR).
.It Fl h
Print a help message and exit.
.It Fl v
Show program version.
.It Fl w Ar SEC
Delay (approximate) in seconds before automatically exiting.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mdns-scan 1
.Xr mdnsd 8 ,
.Sh AUTHORS
This mDNS-SD implementation was created in 2003 by
.An Jeremie Miller Aq jer@jabber.org .
Much later, in 2016, it was adopted by
.An Joachim Wiberg Aq troglobit@gmail.com
for further development and maintenance at GitHub:
.Aq https://github.com/troglobit/mdnsd .
